General program questions
How long are Khoury College’s MS programs?
All programs within our college take 2 to 2.5 years to complete. Our programs can be completed in 2 years without co-op. With a co-op, it can take 2.5 years. The difference lies in credit hours and completion of a co-op.

The MSCS, MSCY, MSAI, and MSDS programs are 32 credits total. The Align program is 44 credits. This consists of two semesters of rigorous academic bridge courses and two years of Master’s level core courses and electives.

Full-time students typically take two 4-credit courses per semester. Part-time students take one four-credit course per semester, lengthening their time to degree to 3 to 3.5 years.

I have a 3-year bachelor’s degree. Can I apply?
As long as the three-year degree is a complete bachelor’s degree, students are welcome to apply.

I majored in ________. Can I apply?
Yes, the Align program is specially designed to suit the needs of students with no technical background, and welcomes all majors. Find out how to apply.

Will I be eligible to participate in co-op?
Yes, all of our master’s students are eligible to participate in co-op during their time at Khoury College. Please visit the graduate co-op page for more information on academic eligibility requirements.

Are your MS programs STEM certified for post-grad OPT?
Yes, all of our master’s programs are eligible for post-grad OPT.

I am enrolled in a graduate program at a different college/university. Can I transfer to Khoury College?
Transfer applicants follow the same process and timeline as any other applicant for admissions. Admitted students should inquire with their Khoury program adviser on the transfer credit process. Please note that we will not evaluate courses for transfer until the student has arrived on campus for the start of their first semester. Read more about our transfer credit policy.

I am enrolled in a different college at Northeastern. Can I transfer to Khoury College?
Internal Northeastern transfer applicants follow the same process and timeline as any other applicant for admissions. Unlike undergrad, the process is more like changing schools than changing majors — as such, we ask that applicants complete the full application process.

What happens if I want to switch campuses part of the way through my program?
Students are eligible to transfer campuses after two semesters of successful study (minimum GPA of 3.0). Students work with academic advisors to initiate and complete the transfer.

If I am accepted, can I defer my admission?
Deferrals are allowed for one semester at a time, up to one year. No exceptions will be made to this time limit. Deferral requests are subject to committee review and are not guaranteed. Students may request to defer their admission by submitting an enrollment deposit through the admissions portal and completing the deferral request form located within the Manage Your Application section of the application status portal. As stated on the defer request form, approved deferral requests may not be processed until the future term of entry is available on the official application for admission.

Can you tell me why my application was rejected?
The application review process is holistic and, very often, a number of internal and external factors contribute to a given decision. As such, decisions are final and deliberations are private to the committee. We’re not able to comment on why any given application was rejected.

Can you reconsider my application?
All decisions issued by the admissions committee are final. Unfortunately, we will not process requests for reconsideration.

Do you have any informational events?
You can find our latest information sessions listed on our events page. Additionally, you may contact us directly for more information.

Are Align students expected to take summer courses?
Generally, students have the flexibility to take classes, go on co-op, or take a break during the summer term. However, Align students admitted in the spring term are strongly encouraged to complete their bridge coursework by the end of the first summer term.

Application questions
How do I apply for an application fee waiver?
Unfortunately, Khoury College does not provide application fee waivers. We hope students will find other ways to support the submission of their applications.

Can I apply to more than one program?
Applicants may apply for up to three programs using one account. Each application is considered independently and decisions rendered do not have any bearing on the other applications. Some application support materials are used across all applications. The application will prompt you for additional materials if they are required before submission. The application fee is required for the first program and there is no fee required for the subsequent applications.

Can I apply to more than one campus?
Students may list two campuses as their primary and secondary preferences. However, the application serves for all campuses and will be considered for all available locations. If an accepted applicant’s primary preferred campus is at capacity, they will be asked to select another available campus before enrolling. Applicants who submit multiple applications for the same program with different campuses will have the subsequent application(s) for that program withdrawn.

How do I check the status of my application?
Applicants can view the most up-to-date status of their application on the Slate application portal after submitting their application.

We ask that applicants please refrain from emailing the admissions department to check on the status of their application.

What are the transcript requirements?
Transcripts from all previously attended post-secondary education institutions (after high school) are required. For applicants who have graduated from any post-secondary education program(s), degree certificate(s) are also required. If transcript(s) and/or degree certificate(s) are issued in a language other than English, an English translation must accompany the native language documents. An English translation only will not be deemed sufficient. For applicants who are pursuing or have completed a four-year undergraduate degree program, a minimum of six semesters of courses, grades and credits must be reflected in uploaded documentation (for three-year undergraduate degree programs, a minimum of four semesters must be present).

For applicants who have obtained credentials from India, semester mark sheets and degree certificate(s)/provisional certificate(s) are required in addition to the consolidated transcript. If semester mark sheets are unavailable, an official communication on institutional letterhead must accompany the consolidated transcript indicating any retakes/backlogs associated with the program.

For applicants who have obtained credentials from China, the degree certificate and graduation certificate are required.

Also include the reverse side of the transcript(s) when uploading your documentation; specifically any grading scale information, legend, or university instructions included on the reverse side of the transcript(s) should also be included in the scanned copy.

Do my transcripts need to be evaluated through WES (or equivalent service)?
No, international transcripts do not need to be WES-evaluated. However, they do need to be translated into English by the reporting institution (not the applicant).

Do I need to convert my GPA to a different scale?
No. Applicants should record their GPA as written on the transcript and specify the GPA scale in the designated space on the application. The Khoury admissions team has established reading standards for all international GPA scales. Students with no GPA may enter 0 as their GPA.

Can I apply for a GRE waiver?
We are currently waiving the GRE requirement indefinitely.

Is the GRE required for Align?
No.

Will you superscore my GRE?
Yes. The GRE score report generally shows every test an applicant has ever taken, broken down by section. We will consider the highest score received in each section (Quant, Verbal, AW).

Do you accept the GMAT instead of the GRE?
No.

Can you waive my TOEFL/IELTS?
International students may waive the English Language Test if they have received a 4+ year degree (bachelor’s or doctoral) in a country where English is an official language. Additionally, international students may waive the English Language Test if they have received a 4+ year degree (bachelor’s or doctoral) from an institution where English the medium of instruction.

The following circumstances do not qualify for a waiver:

2-year master’s degree received in an English-speaking country
2+2 or 3+1 programs (joint programs between international institutions)
Khoury College is no longer accepting Duolingo as of the spring 2024 admissions cycle.

Will you superscore my TOEFL/IELTS?
No. We are aware of the new TOEFL MyBest Scores option — however, we will not accept this option. Please submit a single test in its entirety.

What if my scores are expired?
Test scores must be valid as of September 1 for fall semester admission and January 1 for spring semester admission. Applicants are highly encouraged to submit official test scores when they apply.

Do you need my official scores/transcripts?
We do not require a student’s official scores or official transcripts until after they are admitted to the program. However, it is highly recommended that applicants submit official test scores when applying. If you submit multiple language test scores, we will consider the highest score. We are unable to remove materials such as test scores from your application. Please do not send official transcripts until after you have received a decision.

What counts as “official”?
Official test scores come directly from the reporting agency — ETS for GRE and TOEFL (code 3679) and British Council for IELTS. Official transcripts must come either directly from the reporting institution (electronically or by mail) or sent by the student in a certified, sealed envelope to either address located on the Resources for New Master’s Students page. Please allow 2-3 weeks processing time.

If you have accidentally sent your ETS scores to another college at Northeastern, your scores will still be matched to your application. You do not need to request them to be transferred to Khoury College.

Is there a page/word limit for the Statement of Purpose? Does Align have a Statement of Purpose?
The SOP has a maximum of 1000 words (no page limit). Align does not require a SOP and instead has three essay questions that can be found on the Align Apply page.

What are the requirements around Letters of Recommendation?
We do not require LORs to be on official letterhead.  Recommenders may use their personal email addresses to submit the LOR (an “official” email address is not a requirement).  Interfolio is not acceptable — LORs must be sent through the Slate system.

How can I update my application after I submit it?
Please submit a complete and accurate application. Applicants may only update certain materials after submission using the upload tool in the Slate application portal status page. Upon submitting an application, applicants acknowledge they will be unable to make updates to their application. The Admissions team cannot upload materials to applications.

How can I update my recommenders?
To update your recommender information after you submit an application, log into your application portal and follow the instructions under your application checklist to edit information. If you are updating or replacing the recommender’s email address, please be sure to select send to recommender, not save, for them to receive the submission request email.

If your recommenders are not getting the email for your letter, please have them check their Junk or Spam folders. You may also send a reminder email to your recommenders through the Slate application portal.

“Verified test scores” is pending on my checklist. What does this mean?
This requirement will be marked as completed after we receive your official language test scores. They are not required by Khoury College until after you receive a decision, however, you are encouraged to send them in before that. Test scores are automatically matched to your record, but this process may take some time to complete.

Did you get my transcripts?
Your official transcripts will be marked as received on your application checklist after they have been processed. Please allow 2-3 weeks processing time. You can check if your transcripts have been received by completing the inquiry form located within the Manage Your Application section of the application status portal.

I am having issues submitting my application.
If you are having issues with the application before submission, you can submit a ticket using the Slate support link located within the application.

How much is the enrollment deposit for MS programs?
The application fee is $100 for all MS programs, except MSCS-Align and MSDS-Align, which have no charge. The enrollment deposit is $750 for all MS programs. Applicants typically have 14 days to submit an enrollment deposit to secure their seat. We do not offer enrollment deposit extensions at this time. Application fees and enrollment deposits are non-refundable.

I am having issues paying my application or enrollment fee.
If you are paying my credit card, please ensure you are filling in the correct CVV code. If you are paying by e-check, please call your bank if the payment is not successfully going through.

How can I apply to another program after I submit my application?
Applicants looking to complete additional applications after a main application has been submitted can log in to their application status page and click the Manage Your Application option. In the next screen, Click on ‘Make a request’ and Select the option for ‘Add Program(s) Requests.’

Did you get my test scores?
Your official test scores will be marked as received on your application checklist after they have been matched to your record. You can check if your test scores have been received by completing the inquiry form located within the Manage Your Application section of the application status portal.

Regional campus questions
Can I complete a co-op at the regional campuses (including Canada)?
Yes. All MS students can go on co-op as long as they meet the eligibility requirements (learn more on the Graduate Co-ops page).

Is the curriculum/degree the same at the regional campuses?
Yes. All students within a given program receive the same degree and work within the same curriculum/program requirements.

Will my diploma list my campus?
No — degrees and diplomas are identical across our regional locations.

Financial aid questions
How much is the program?
University tuition and fees are located on the Student Financial Services webpage.

Can I apply for merit scholarships?
Applicants can find more information on Financial Support for Master’s Students.

Do you honor the Double Husky?
Yes! If an applicant has a Northeastern degree (from Khoury College or otherwise), they will receive a 25% tuition discount. Any Northeastern alum is eligible, international or domestic.

Do you honor Fulbright or other fellowships?
Yes; please contact us for specific questions.

Are there graduate assistantships for MS students?
We do not offer assistantships for master’s students, but there are often campus-based jobs and teaching assistant positions available.